IBM-1620 IPL-V Interpreter.

Interpreter for the IPL-V list-processing language written by Wendell Terry Beyer of the University of Oregon in 1963, taken from a scanned PDF document in the Feigenbaum collection of the Stanford Digital Repository.

IPL-V SPS Listing PDF
    https://stacks.stanford.edu/file/hj487fn0811/hj487fn0811.pdf
    Call Number: SC0340, Accession: 1986-052, Box: 46, Folder: 52, Title: IPL-V

The interpreter is described by Beyer in a paper included in:

1620 Users Group Western Region Minutes Denver, 1964-06, "1620 IPL-V A Non-numeric Problem Solving Tool", Wendell Terry Beyer, p.147
    https://bitsavers.org/pdf/ibm/common/1620_Users_Group_Western_Region_196406.pdf

Transcribed from the PDF by Rupert Lane using his "gridlock" OCR system:
    https://github.com/rupertl/gridlock/

OCR transcription results.
    https://github.com/rupertl/iplv-listings/

IPL-V is described in the book:
    "Information Processing Language-V, Second Edition", Allen Newell, Fred M. Tonge, Edward A. Feigenbaum, Bert F. Green, Jr., George H. Mealy (the RAND Corporation), Prentice-Hall, 1964.


Repository files:

Ackermann.ipl
    A small sample IPL-V program from Newell, et al.

IPL-V-Interpreter-Deck-1.card
    The first half of the 1620 load deck, containing the object code for the IPL-V assembler/loader. This file was created by extracting the cards ending in ]0000 through ]0292 from IPL-V-Interpreter-Object-card. The IPL-V source program must be inserted between Deck-1 and Deck-2.

IPL-V-Interpreter-Deck-2.card
    The second half of the 1620 load deck, containing the object code for the IPL-V interpreter. This deck was created by extracting cards from IPL-V-Interpreter-Object.card as follows:

      1. Cards ending in ]0448 through ]0625, comprising the relocatable
         J-routine primitives; followed by:
      2. A special delimiter card to indicate the end of the primitives. This
         must have 12 zeroes in columns 1-12 and the digits "0]1]0000]0012" in columns 62-74. All all other columns, including the card sequence number in columns 76-80 may be anything; followed by:
      3. Cards ending in ]0293 through ]0447; followed by:
      4. Cards ending in ]0626 through ]0632.

    Apparently it was possible to include custom machine-language subroutines as well, for which there is no known documentation, but which are believed would have been inserted after Deck-1 and before the "J" subroutines.

IPL-V-Interpreter-label-index.txt
    A cross-reference of assembler labels by their card-sequence numbers (SPS columns 1-5). This was included in the PDF scan of the listing downloaded from stacks.stanford.edu, but how it was originally generated is unknown. This was transcribed to text as part of Lane's gridlock OCR process.

IPL-V-Interpreter-Listing.lst
    Assembly listing of the complete IPL-V program (assembler plus interpreter) from the source deck IPL-V-Interpreter.sps. This was generated by reformatting the "uncompressed" load deck below.

IPL-V-Interpreter-Object.card
    The compressed object deck produced from assembling IPL-V. This file was split at the point between the assembler and interpreter code to create Deck-1 and Deck-2 above. This and IPL-V-Interpreter-Object-UNCOMPRESSED.card ard were assembled using the card-based IBM SPS II assembler dated 1/1/1962.

IPL-V-Interpreter-Object-UNCOMPRESSED.card
    The "uncompressed" object deck produced from assembling IPL-V-Interpreter.sps. This was reformatted to produce the assembly listing above. See software/retro-1620-Utilities/SPS-Object-Deck-Lister-LHCode.wsf in this repo.

IPL-V-Interpreter-SPS-Symbol-List.txt
    The list of assembler labels and their assigned addresses generated by the SPS assembler from IPL-V-Interpreter.sps.

IPL-V-Interpreter-Xscript.sp2
    The transcript of the program from the scanned PDF of its assembly listing downloaded from stacks.stanford.edu. This was transcribed to text as part of Lane's gridlock OCR process. This file was matched to IPL-V-Interpreter-Listing.lst to verify the OCR transcription and correct errors. Corrections have been applied to the SPS source card-image portion of the lines in this file, but not to the assembled code portion, although differences in the assembled code portion have been verified as being OCR errors.

IPL-V-Interpreter.sps
    SPS assembly source deck extracted from the corrected IPL-V-Interpreter-Xscript.sp2 text after corrections were applied.

IPL-V-Subroutines.card
    Compressed standard IPL-V "J" subroutines. This was transcribed to text as part of Lane's gridlock OCR process. It should be placed after the source program and immediately before Deck-2 in the card reader.
